# CGPS: A machine learning-based approach integrating multiple gene set analysis tools for better prioritization of biologically relevant pathways


## Function
CGPS is a tool for integrating the multiple gene set enrichment analysis using machine learning method.
It integrates nine gene set enrichment analysis method: GSE, GSA, PADOG, PLAGE, GAGE, Globaltest, SAFE, CEPA and GANPA.
 CGPS simultaneously integrates the p-value and rank obtained from nine prominent GSE methods into a reliable ensemble score (R score) and then generates a new gene set ranking based on the R score, representing a powerful approach for prioritizing biologically relevant gene sets. 
For details, please refer to this paper: 
[Chen, A., and Kong, L. (2018). CGPS: A machine learning-based approach integrating multiple gene set analysis tools for better prioritization of biologically relevant pathways. Journal of Genetics and Genomics 45, 489–504.](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jgg.2018.08.002)

## Summary
We use the gold standard datasets with known drug-targeted pathway, the rank and p-value gained from all the nine methods are used to train a SVM model.
This model integrates the results by providing an ensemble score R score, to sort pathway as integrated results. The rank represents how whether the pathway is similar to the target pathways. 

# preparation #
R version 3.5.1
python version 2.7

install R package:
* Biobase
* limma
* edgeR
* gage
* GSVA
* EnrichmentBrowser

install python modules:
* numpy
* pandas
* sklearn


Notes: 
1. only support KEGG PATHWAY now.

Data format
Please refer to 'test' directory
the test data is generated by microarray.

#     steps    #

Rscript combined_methods.R expfile phefile datatype=[ma/rseq] datadir
python predict.py datadir outdir
python run_cgps.py -e expfile -p phefile -d datatype -s species -o outdir

* expfile: file to save expression data
* phefile: file to save the experiment category of expfile
* data type : for expression data, "rseq" for RNA-Seq data, 'ma' for microarray data
* datadir: directory to save the results of individual methods
* species: abbr of the species, to find the abbr of the species for analysis, please refer to http://www.kegg.jp/kegg/catalog/org_list.html
* outdir : directory to save the combined results of CGPS

